  -----------------------------------------------------
  layout: post
  title: iPhone 4, In So Many Ways, It is Overhyped !
  ...
  permalink: http://blog.manyu.in/?p=23
  ...
  post\_id: 23
  categories: ---
  - Android
  - Apple
  - Apple A4
  - FaceTime
  - General
  - iOS
  - iOS4
  - iPhone 4
  - iPhone hype
  - Mobile
  - Multitasking
  - Retina Display
  -----------------------------------------------------

<div>
<div>

<a href="http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/e/e6/IPhone_4.jpg"><img class=" alignright" title="iPhone 4" src="http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/e/e6/IPhone_4.jpg" alt="iPhone 4 showing it's home screen" /></a>
<div style="text-align:justify;">

On the 7th of June, at the WWDC, at an event which even God[^1]\^
is rumored to have watched Steve Jobs in his turtle neck t-shirt
announced to audience both on site and online  the next huge leap
since iPhone itself, iPhone 4. It was the fourth edition of
arguably one of the best smart phones on the planet, and according
to Mr.Steve, it has just got better, but as happens with any
product launches, the fine print always gets ignored.

</div>
<div style="text-align:justify;">

Apple is a company which I believe has the best marketing team in
the world. Their idea is simple create something good, and now
instead of convincing you that the product is “really really good”,
they convince you that you “really, really need it”, and thus their
products shift from a luxury to a necessity and the end verdict
– "Apple is now the largest tech company in the world and makes
more profits just on iPhones than Nokia makes on its entire global
mobile market".

</div>
<div style="text-align:justify;">

Now if you think this blog is against iPhone 4 : "You are WRONG" ,
it is one of the most brilliant and smart piece of gadget, I have
seen (on computer). This phone also vouches for my opinion that
"Apple has class". Now with Apple, a company so good at giving its
products a hype like crazy, even iPhone4 has been hyped to the
point of no return. So the obvious forgetting of the fine print.
Now we go into the main features (functional and design) listed on
official webpage and show you the fine print that Apple just forgot
to highlight. Apple, just like most corporates don't lie, they just
say selective truths.

</div>
<div style="text-align:justify;">

<!--more-->
1.  *FaceTime*

Apple says   :

This has been something that everyone has wanted for decades,and
this is so much of fun and everything. It enables people to see
each other from iPhone 4 to iPhone 4 over WiFi. It is fun, and
vastly exciting.

LiT   says    :

Video call has been there for years ( Since 2001), and it works by
default on all 3G phones which have a front camera over a 3G
connection. The video quality streamed was VGA (same as that of
iPhone 4G's front camera), Apple because of using WiFi which
provides higher bandwidth, can stream higher resolutions for images
using the back camera.

So how simple is the old 3G video conferencing, it is as simple as
iPhone 4's FaceTime. Still not convinced, check this video out from
about a year ago, and now that 4G is out, expect better
resolutions.

[googlevideo=http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=-585493222508946392\#]

So why isn't it that famous yet ? The primary reason being 3G
penetration isn't complete yet .The next reason being that people
just don't use it, even when we have voice chat, video chat and
broadband when we want to chat to our friend unless for specific
reasons, we don't use the video option. similarly most people just
don't use video call  for long on their 3G mobiles that they just
forget that it's there. Finally remember that other person you are
calling also has to be on a 3G network with a 3G phone.In India
given that WiFi is scarce, the probability that FaceTime over WiFi
is even a feature is really really small, and even if you have it
the bandwidth might not be all that great. The only hope is if
iPhone soon ports this over 3G.

The second reason, imagine making a video call in a bus, now since
you are using the camera you have to hold your phone about a foot
back (a lot back for the back camera) to get your full face in
view, now when you do this to make sure the other person hears,
here you have two option use a microphone or raise your voice such
that the mic (and the persons sitting near you) picks it up. In my
opinion it looks wierd. The only place you can use this is
comfortably is your home, or office

Spell bound by the resolution of the FaceTime image given on the
Apple's Website, well check out their video for the actual
resolution.

2. *Retina Display*

-   \*Apple says :

The retina display on the iPhone 4 OS makes everything look really
really wonderful, be it text, video or graphics, everything is so
crisp.Retina display has a higher resolution than the human retina
so that the human eye cannot distinguish the pixels. This gives the
text a smooth flow as found in printed material.The In-Plane
switching gives you the same clarity at almost any angle, and with
a better screen cover they have tackled the problem of reflection
of the background light.

LiT says :

Yes, Apple is correct in saying that it's display is at a freaking
high resolution for such a small size, in fact it's 960 x 640
display, that is actually as good as few netbooks, but on a screen
this size and the level of detail will be better.

Now about Retina display, please note that Retina Display is not a
scientific or technical name, it is just the brand name of high
pixel density screens produced by LG Displays. Now the resolution
power of the retina is not defined in terms of pixels but in terms
of arc length, and can be defined in terms of pixels only if the
length at which the display is kept is mentioned (hold the phone
close to your eye, you can still see the pixels). For iPhone4 the
distance at which the display gives more than what retina requires,
happens at between 10 inches to 12 inches (for normal vision, for
perfect vision it is said that this is as high as 18 inches
[<a href="http://http://gizmodo.com/5561351/the-iphone-4-retina-display-controversy" target="_blank">Reference</a>]).
Jobs did mention in the passing this distance at which phone has to
be held but sadly it doesn't appear in any easily accessible areas
of the features in website.

Since Apple said four times more pixels should you expect 4 times
more clarity ? Not actually there will be a significant improvement
but not up to 4 times. Another fact being,all the displays till now
weren't this high-resolution but yet we got smooth flowing images
and didn't see the images as pixelated.The reasons to both of the
above things is  a simple physical phenomena called diffraction.
The light coming from these pixels mix and blur, well for
resolutions lower than retinal resolution this is good as it gives
the pixels a more continuous effect, but for higher resolution
images, it basically just blurs them up. So expect a significant
increase in viewing quality but not one that may cause you a
mini-heart attack.

And about better quality videos and photos again their base
resolution has to be really good otherwise it doesn't make a
difference, considering this a movie in Apple's resolution would be
at least 2GB, you might not be able to store that many movies other
than in the 32GB version. The same hold for the apps, sure the text
in them will look good, but they will have to be reprogrammed if
they need to get the maximum out of the display. After all the
display isn't magic it is just a higher resolution display.

Now to the IPS technology part, IPS vs OLED is still a debate as
OLED gives a higher contrast ratio, and deeper blacks, while IPS
gives you lesser washout. IPS is never trivially better than OLED
is just that with a higher resolution, IPS ends up better than OLED
at a lower resolution, as again they are both different attempts at
screen display and have their own pros and cons.

The anti-reflective and scratch free screen doesn't mean they have
total protection, it just means you will not normally scratch it.
For example putting the phone in the same pocket as your keys, is
still dangerous enough, and against the sunlight you still won't
see much.But you won't have problem with the reflection even in a
well-lit room.

3.  *Camera & HD Recording*

Apple says :

The new iPhone has an amazing camera of 5 megapixels, and 5x
digital zoom,and with a video recording at HD (720p at 30fps) you
can shoot High - Definition videos, with LED Flash you can even
shoot in low light. They also have tap to focus which helps you
focus your subject with just a single tap.

LiT says :

5 megapixel would have made the news if they had released it with
iPhone 3GS, but now 5 meg is something you just expect and they
delivered it. LED flash and tap to focus are also things which are
really good but nothing close to game changing. But, the HD
recording now that is something I have nothing to say against,
totally awesome, that is what I expect from Apple. Yes even HD has
been done but mainly only on phone focussed on the camera.

4.  *iOS*

Apple says :

With Multitasking you are now able to do multiple things at once,
but at the same time you will not have not performance issue with
the application you are running,and neither will it eat up your
battery life. We have also been able to introduce Folders in our OS
and now it supports the installation of a huge number of
applications that is available on our Appstore.

LiT says :

This was a feature that was long overdue and when it has come it
has it's own problems, for one many of the apps would have to be
reprogrammed to suit tp multitasking in iOS 4, and that means you
just can't expect to use any existing app you may have bought to
multitask, unless the developers give an update out, and even in
multitasking the app is pinned down by a number of restrictions.

Apple says the reason Apple didn't multitask till now was to save
power, but then why can't I have two modes one a
powersaver/perfomance with multitask off and the other with
multitask on ?? (This is a genuine question, not an argument)

And all of those things mentioned as benefits of multitasking well
they are really really old, and have been around in platforms like
Android since it's beginning.

The App-store is still restrictive and almost all of the great apps
are still paid, and most of the people still resort to jail
breaking, the Android App-store might not be something that is
right now competitive but given the fact that developers need not
pay Google to develop for it, and that they can use any platform
they need to, the future might not be the same.

5.  *Apple A4 Processor*

Apple says :

This is a highly powerful but highly power efficient processor,
that has been developed by Apple for it's use. It enables you to
seamlessly do the most daunting tasks like gaming, multitasking,
FaceTiming with ease, while at the same time conserving your
battery life.

LiT says :

Yes it is, totally agreeing with Apple on the power and power
efficiency of their processor, infact if there is one thing that
Apple hasn't hyped up in their iPhone 4 launch is that they have
been able to put such an amazing processor which can actually
compete with netbooks in a mobile phone. But then again given the
critic I am, I have to say this processor is not something
exclusive to Apple, yes they have done their tinkering of the base
design, but the base design is ARM Cortex + PowerVR SGX and is
manufactured by Samsung, so exclusivity not guaranteed.

6.  *Gyro*

Apple says :

iPhone 4 comes with it's own 3- axis gyroscope, combine this with
their accelerometer you get amazing motion sensing capabilities
including full 3D altitude, rotation and fine tuned motion sensing.
This enables you for much better games and motion sensing apps

LiT says :

Respect, this is one feature I can say what Apple stands for,
perfection. By putting a gyro they have just taken the whole new
field of motion sensing to a whole new level. I just love it. Again
another feature Apple hasn't hyped to the point it is worth, maybe
because the technical jargon is not exactly what its fans are
looking to buy. Expect all other high-end mobiles to follow suit.

6.  *Design*

Apple says :

iPhone 4 is the result of putting all their experience together and
coming up with something absolutely stunning, This is the slimmest
smart phone in the world. They have the strongest glass that is
over 30 times as strong as plastic and is recyclable. Scratchfree
and beautiful. They even have been able to integrate their antennas
to the side metal casing taking utility based design to a whole new
level.

LiT says :

Design is a field where Apple still is in my opinion inarguably the
best,iPhone 4 is no different. It is beautiful and has a class to
it, such that it attracts both the techies and the artisist, just
like Jobs said, you can always feel the Apple's small love affair
for art here. Apple's design are the perfect combo for tech and
art, aesthetic and utilitarian. The only downside being a few
people claim that the display is not as strong as it is supposed to
be. (Check their blog
<a href="http://gizmodo.com/5559977/first-broken-iphone-4-shows-new-glass-isnt-that-resistant" target="_blank">here</a>).

Having said all that I would say iPhone 4 is still a amazingly sexy
piece of gadget to get your hands on, just wondering what the price
in India would be. I am figuring it's worth at about 30K. It might
not a leap that you can hype about, but iPhone 4 is still a huge
improvement.

The aim of the blog was just to show that companies might like to
hide a few facts, when they are talking about their product, but be
sure to know your product inside out before you buy them

[1] My personal views of God are much different, but for the
purpose of the article this version of God is much better.

[2] Apple, iPhone, iPhone 4, iOS 4, iOS, FaceTime, Apple A4, are
all the registered trademarks of Apple Inc. Retina Display is the
registered trademark of LG Display, and Android of Google, any
other unattributed trademark is the property of it's user.

</div>
</div>
</div>


[^1]:
    1


