  -------------------------------------------------------------
  layout: post
  title: ! 'Two "Self Help" Books that have actually helped '
  permalink: http://blog.manyu.in/?p=92
  ...
  post\_id: 92
  categories: ---
  - book review
  - books
  - My Views
  - Rich Dad Poor Dad
  - The Alchemist
  -------------------------------------------------------------

<div style="text-align:justify;">

Most of the self-proclaimed self-help books are actually true to
their word, when they say you have to help yourselves they mean it
because even the book rarely helps. So my general philosophy is not
to believe in any book that says ("You Can't Lose", "Success is
Yours","Getting Rich is so easy", and so on). Yet, there are few
books, that I have found to actually help. This blog post tell you
why the two books helped me
<ul>
    <li>
*Rich Dad, Poor Dad*
</li>
    <li>
*The Alchemist*
</li>
</ul>
\*<span style="text-decoration:underline;">
<!--more-->
Rich Dad, Poor Dad</span>\*

[caption id="" align="alignright" width="307" caption="Your Guide
to Richness Financial
Freedom"]<a href="http://esprit-riche.com/images/rich-dad.jpg"><img class="  " title="Rich Dad Poor Dad" src="http://esprit-riche.com/images/rich-dad.jpg" alt="Rich Dad, Poor Dad" width="307" height="471" /></a>[/caption]

There are books that are worth the price you pay for them, there
are books worth their weight in gold, and then there is RDPD. The
obvious question would be "*Why such a high rating??*" Believe me,
this is the best no-nonsense guide to finance that I have seen
(well I have only seen a few, so if you don't think so, pardon me)
. What surprises me is that this book deviates from normal cliches
and offers no *get-rich-quick methods*, or any
*sure to work sales tip*, or any *"100% working stock help"*,
because as the book itself tells, there aren't any. In fact the
book is self-help in a way, as it never tells us
"*How to get rich*" but only \_"One of the things you will need to
look into in case you are planning on becoming rich". \_I admire
the book for it states,  it is never easy to get rich, and stocks
won't automatically turn into money generating machine; and that
each market is a new territory - sure there are pointers to better
marketing, but no sure-shot technique to selling.

The focus of the book is not there, it explains the basic
difference between how the rich and the middle class think, again
you won't see their secret methods, just how different the thought
processes are, and surprisingly even though all of what is said is,
basic common sense. It goes against the established common
financial sense among the middle class, just the redefinition of
the words \_Asset \_and \_Liability \_will make you think a lot
about how radical this book is and yet how common sensical.

It asks you to think, it asks you to keep your income safe, and at
the same time it asks you to take risks after studying the
prospects. In short, it gives you the advice that most of your
parents would have failed to give. This is the only book that has
not glorified "Taking-the-leap", it asks you to walk before you can
run and run before you can jump.

The book surprisingly requires absolutely no knowledge of financial
jargon or policies or anything of the sort. It gives a concrete
example on why the rich get richer, the poor poorer and the middle
class stay middle class. I am not saying (neither is the book) that
you will get rich once you read the book, but I have found that my
financial thought process has improved greatly(even now it sucks,
but still) and I am sure you will try this out. I also hope to
achieve financial freedom, something they

Before you jump on to the next book "on a sure way to be rich" let
me ask you a
question, *"Do you think that larger house means larger asset?"*

\_ \_Read it, and the chances are it might be the greatest help I
would have done to you.

*<span style="text-decoration:underline;">The Alchemist</span>*

[caption id="" align="alignright" width="216" caption="A Cool Cover
pic from
Wikipedia"]<a href="http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/c/c4/TheAlchemist.jpg"><img title="Alchemist" src="http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/c/c4/TheAlchemist.jpg" alt="Cover or The Alchemist" width="216" height="351" /></a>[/caption]

There have been many whose lives have supposedly changed for the
better, because of this book, yet this is one book that I would
still leave upon you the decision whether to buy it or not, for the
advice in the book is not something I believe in, yet it is
something that triggered my interest in the same. My philosophies
are what you could call another path towards the same goal.Yet this
book has got a character of it's own and the beauty is that even
though you might not agree with the book, your character will mix
with that of the book, and hence what your experience of the book
would actually change according to your views. In fact, the two
times I read the books, the changes were really visible.

That said please note that this is not a self-help or a
motivational book, but just a motivational fable, and also an
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Allegorical">allegorical</a>
one and so there could well be a meaning  beyond what is said and
what is said may well be figurative, but the book will stay in your
head for a long time, and cause you to have your views on the same.
Many of you might agree to what is said, or you may disagree, but
thankfully you will have some opinion.

I have to say that I am quite pleased with the translation as well,
as I found the story to have a nice flow and character to it. It is
a brilliant novel and well deserves the title of a classic.

[SPOILER ALERT- Continue only if you have read the book]

My explanation to  "\_If we desire for something truly and with all
our heart, the universe will conspire for it to happen" . \_I just
love to think that if we truly and with all our heart desire for
something, it becomes a subconscious desire, and our subconscious
mind searches for opportunities in the whole of the universe for
us. When Santiago came up with the idea of selling tea, the
universe was not the reason, it was him. In case you ignored my
warning and read this, don't worry there is a lot more of such
small thoughts in the book and you will enjoy finding your own
meanings for the same.

PS : These weren't book reviews but more of  my experiences with
it, so it isn't impartial or unbiased, as such it will always be
coloured with my opinions on the same.

</div>



