---
layout: post
title: "I am Human"
tagline: "A thought experiment in morality based on Swordfish(movie)"
category: personal
modified: 2010-04-23
tags: [swordfish,morality]
---


I was watching this movie called “Swordfish” today (This is right round where you start to wonder whether this blog is going to be a review of that),the movie in general, questions human morality, human emotions and human logic, a dialogue in that specifically caught my attention, and made me think a quite lot about it. 

> Imagine you are given the power to cure all the diseases in the world, but for that you will have to kill one innocent little boy, would you do it or not ??

This is one question that we (or atleast me) will not be able to digest easily, for if I didn't use the power, my inaction would be responsible for a millions lives every single day, but if I choose to use it, I would have to do something human morality and emotions is dead against. To a perfectly logical mind, void of any emotions or feelings, the choice is simple,

> 1 million \> 1

But for the human mind as complex as it is, the choice is never simple, we are told to take the path of lesser evil, but here even the concept of right and wrong, is blurred, there is no right, there is no wrong,there are just two situations. Most people I don't think will be able to kill that one single person, because of our emotions, we somehow believe that killing that one person is a direct action, and we are responsible for it, whereas the loss of lives of million, because of our inaction is indirect and hence the only force responsible is the disease in itself. Here our emotions overpower our logic, which was stacked at unbelievable odds, and that is the essence of human emotion.

It defies all logic, the way in which it acts is much closer to the subconscious than to the normal mind, which is where logic rules. Logic is a hard job, we need facts, arguments and experience to form a proper logic, we have to convince ourselves that it's true, emotions on the other hand are free souls, it requires no explanation, no facts, and nothing at all. For Eg : No man alive, in this world would logically smoke a cigarette, but here human emotion takes over, here the nicotine, the tar and carbon are overridden by the *“feel of a fag”*, and thanks to that tobacco companies are still very much in business.

It is really interesting to see that when we view situations external to our own, we are highly logical,but the moment we get involved the logic turns to emotion, and our whole view point changes. This is exactly why we can very easily question illogical things others do, for we find that there is no logical reason for the person to do what he does, but for him it might mean his life to him.

What do you do when they clash? What do you do when logic and emotion pull you off in two separate directions, that is not for, me to answer but the mind would have made the decision had it happened.

So is the little boy still alive?



