  ---------------------------------------
  layout: post
  title: ! 'My Finger(s) to Argentina '
  permalink: http://blog.manyu.in/?p=84
  ...
  post\_id: 84
  categories: ---
  - Argentina
  - Attempted Humour
  - FIFA
  - Finger to Argentina
  - Germnay
  - Random Creations
  - Word Cup
  ---------------------------------------

I had a lot betting on Germany vs Argentina, no not money, but
pride, each and every inch of what I had, and well just like that
Germany defeated Argentina, and I was saved, but a vast majority
who was with Argentina are now licking their wounds, So I thought
that why not create another FB Wall here, lots of statuses to post,
YES, I have been preparing for this moment, just didn't wanna jinx
it so starting the blog only now.

*Please Note : Any hurt inflicted upon the Argentinians is intended, and I shall ask for no pardon.*

\*
<!--more-->
Finger \# 1\* : Germany has a war technique of Blitzkrieg which
involves the rapid advance of their forward line, without any
regard to the opposition flank and only stopping when they reach
their target. The only way to stop a Blitzkreig is to have a
brilliant defence, or a brilliant counter.  Just saw that in
action, and only one country has ever seen that in actual action (
I mean during World War) still lasts, Spain. Go on Germany you can
take even them.

*F \#2* : Paul the Octopus was so good at predicting the results
coz, the Germans behave like an octopus, with 11 limbs, and one
central control. That makes them a team. For Maradonna who believes
that one person can create history, yes but in football that person
has to be one with 11 bodies.

*F \#3*:

[caption id="" align="aligncenter" width="334" caption="Argentina
Crash into Berlin
Wall"]<a href="http://crazycrashes.files.wordpress.com/2007/10/van_crash-1.jpg"><img class=" " title="Argentina Crash into Berlin Wall" src="http://crazycrashes.files.wordpress.com/2007/10/van_crash-1.jpg" alt="Argentina Crash into Berlin Wall" width="334" height="418" /></a>[/caption]

The site where Argentinian Car badly crashed into the Berlin Wall,
the following people sadly met their demise Mardonna the Legendo
(50's), Messi the Hypo (20's), Argentinian the prido (100's). All
of them met with instant death and have been identified, the van
also included 10 other people. Their bodies will be taken back to
Argentina, the next day. The reason for the crash has been
identified as over speeding without any regard for safety or
control.

*F \#4* : Messi is a perfect player, so perfect  that he resembles
the most perfect of all figures, the Circle or the ZERO, which in
fact is also his goal count.

*F \#5*: USA president Obama orders, a preemptive attack on
Germany, on the recent evidence of Germany having weapons of Messi
Destruction, and the return of Blitzkreig.

*F \#6*: Brazil and Argentina to organise their own finals in South
America, citing the reason that that was the final most of the fans
rooted for. They are waiting for Paraguay, to see if all of them
can go together and get a discount on the airline fee.

*F \#7 :* A Serious One Now : For all those who still think
Argentina is much better, and more predictable, Germans have been
the winners, the finalists, semi-finalists and quarter finalists
far more times than the Argentinian team.

*F \#8:* Thanks to Javaiz for the seed of the idea : Germans are
engineers, they just beautifully took apart a malfunctioning
Argentinian machine, and put together a brilliant goal scoring
machine from that.

*F \#9*: Germany really hates homosexuals, for they denied
Maradonna the chance to run naked, and also put down his
"kiss-and-hug-argentinian-players" management technique

*F \#10 :*

[caption id="" align="aligncenter" width="505" caption="Argentinian
perfecting his dream
run"]<a href="http://image56.webshots.com/56/0/35/10/2604035100084130336xUbYyw_ph.jpg"><img class="   " title="Argentinian dream run" src="http://www.katemclaughlin.net/wp-content/uploads/2010/01/teen-sleeping.jpg" alt="Argentinian dream run" width="505" height="338" /></a>[/caption]

The Argentinians had a dream run just that Germany woke them up,
and send them home.

The match I waited for has happened and couldn't have ended better,
Now I don't care even if the Germans don't take the Cup, my wish
has been fulfilled, and would still love them to take the cup, and
am supporting them for it. Really afraid of the Spaniards though.
All of you are free to add to these 10 fingers for Argentina. In
fact, if any Argentinian fan is still out there, I dare you to
comment, except the following comment I warned the Brazilians not
to do "We barely missed out this time, watch for us at next world
cup" . Coz like Brazilian fans you already did that once and we
know how it ended.

--

For the Argentinian Fans : To be honest, I was really afraid for 10
minutes before and after half time, whether you would score a goal.
It was a pleasure watching the match.

Image Credits

[1] <a title="Crazy Crashes" href="http://crazycrashes.wordpress.com/2007/10/27/car-crash/" target="_blank">Crazy
Crashes</a> for the Car Image

[2] <a title="Katem Claughlin" href="http://www.katemclaughlin.net/category/suicide/" target="_blank">Katem
Claughlin</a> for the teen sleeping image



