  ---------------------------------------
  layout: post
  title: The Platinum Rule of Vacations
  ...
  permalink: http://blog.manyu.in/?p=34
  ...
  post\_id: 34
  categories: ---
  - Boredom
  - How I Met Your Mother
  - My Views
  - Platinum Rule
  - Random Creations
  - Vacations
  ---------------------------------------

Another vacations have just come around, and as usual the shine of
the vacations have dimmed, and I am as usual bored and jobless, and
blogging. Now my jobless soul starts watching How I Met Your
Mother, and then Season 3 Episode 11, comes “The Platinum Rule”,
which explains, Why you should “Never ever, ever, ever love 'thy'
neighbour ”. It explains how you should never ever date you might
have to be deal with on a daily basis. Now that I am smack in the
middle of vacations, I think the eight phases of \_The Platinum
Rule \_applies to my precious vacations, remember it was a “Don't
Date rule”. For those of you who don;t know what that is, here is
it's
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Platinum_Rule_%28How_I_Met_Your_Mother%29" target="_blank">wiki.</a>

[caption id="" align="alignleft" width="258" caption="How did I end
up here
??"]<img title="Bored, Bored and B.O.R.E.D" src="http://chuckwarnockblog.files.wordpress.com/2010/03/bored-baby-1284.jpeg" alt="A bored baby image" width="258" height="283" />[/caption]
<p style="text-align:justify;">
*1.Attraction –*The exams have totally taken their toll on you, all
the end semester submissions have been so hard you have hardly had
the time to copy,from some 9 pointer who is busy revising. So you
just want to end it all and vacations seem like the perfect thing
ahead, lots of time to relax, and you believe being jobless is much
better than cramming your head with subjects you are totally going
to forget the moment you write the exam, (or in many cases just
before you write the exams).

*2. Bargaining* – Now you bargain with your own self, on how this
year it is going to be different, on how you are going to rock each
and every single day of the vacation, and have a legendary
vacation.You say to yourselves that you have got it totally planned
out with trips and other crazy stuffs.

*3. Submission* – You finally have finished off your last bloody
exam, (probably even got screwed in that paper) but hell, this
would be your most awesome day, you are finally free, of the
clutches of the bitch called exams and you just wanna take it in
one bite at a time. Your vacations have come, and you have welcomed
them home, Gladly.

*4. Perks* – The first few days of vacation are the most awesome,
you finally get to watch that movie, and sleep till mid noon (you
could also prpbably do these if you take CS @ NIT Calicut btw), and
go on wild trips, you are having one crazy day after another, after
another.

*5. Tipping Point* – This is when you have seen all the movies in
your collection, and in the absence of your hostel lan, have
nothing more to do than watch HBO and Star for what they decide to
give you. You have probably run out of money and that means no more
exciting trips, and the worst part of all, any family function of
that relative's brother's wife's sister's dad's family friend's
..... that you don't want to go to, but would sadly have to because
you have no other excuse to give.

[caption id="" align="alignright" width="200" caption="This is
where you end up
"]<img src="http://felixker.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/03/pe0060257.jpg" alt="man with too many shopping bags" width="200" height="150" />[/caption]
<p style="text-align:justify;">
*6. Purgatory* – You finally accept that there is no way out of it,
and put on your best “Ah ! I know you look” at that weird looking
guy's wedding, and you think it will somehow get better, but NO,
curse you, your mother,( or your sister, or maybe your cousin or
somebody) took you out for their N hours of shopping (your 100N
hours of purgatory) when all you can do is fall asleep giving the
saree/churidar salesman, the “How/Why/When did I even agree to
this" look. The worst part is when you realise you still have a
long way to go for the vacations to end.

*7. Confrontation* – You end up getting so pissed that you finally
go back to college even if it's closed to do some god damn project,
or spent all your time in sleeping and the rest of the time just
taking out all your anger on the food. You just beg and beg to
somehow go on the next trip.

*8. Fallout* – You realise that you have been the reason you got
bored you stop attending that relative's relative's family
functions, you protest against going out with someone for their
shopping, and all of them end up cursing you. “It is your vacation
and you don't have time for this” . There it is one more vacation
well spent.



