  ----------------------------------------------
  layout: post
  title: On being an "Agnostic Hindu (mostly)"
  ...
  permalink: http://blog.manyu.in/?p=233
  ...
  post\_id: 233
  categories: ---
  - Agnostic
  - All
  - Anti-religion
  - atheism
  - Christian
  - General
  - God
  - Hindu
  - Muslim
  - My Views
  - Religion
  - theism
  - Uncategorized
  ----------------------------------------------

The people who are my friends on Facebook (ah well that makes about
95% of the readership of the blog :P) would have noticed that , few
of my past posts have been about God, Religion and their
relationship.

In short this post is on "Why I am a Agnostic Hindu (mostly)".

Ha yes you may say, the two terms don't go well with each other,
they contradict a lot, Yes they do. It is intended, but hopefully
the contradiction will not be there by the time I am done with this
post. bq.
*Agnosticism is the view that the truth value of certain claims—especially claims about the existence or non-existence of any deity, but also other religious and metaphysical claims—is unknown or unknowable*
Firstly please do realise that Agnosticism is as far away from
Atheism as it is from any other religion, and Agnosticism is not
much of a religion but a system of thought.

So why would I be against religions ?

<!--more-->

I being the geek I am, will try listing down the points.

*1. Religion has no base*

My first point of conflict occurs because the base or
*the foundation of any religion, is on the Existence of God*,
almost all religions start with "*God created the universe ....*" ,
and goes on to describe a lot of things, but that fact is it never
proves \_"within bounds of human understandin\_g \_and reasonable
accuracy " \_the existence of  a *God*.

In short it is like you base your entire work on \_unobservable,
unknowable, secret  \_assumptions, and asking the whole world to
believe in it. \*\*That is the same with Atheism, whereby it is
said "No God" exists but sadly no proof for the same exists. 
Mathematically speaking "Absence of a proof,  neither proves nor
disproves a theorem". Yet this is from where the entire belief
system is started.

An argument would be that Science and Maths is also axiomatic,
hence the proof I talk about itself is wrong, but what I am saying
is that there is no exhibitable proof.

This is exactly the point why I am agnostic, NO RELIGION (including
atheism) has given us any proof of existence of God, haven't even
come close. To slightly modify the famous dialogue from "The Usual
Suspects" bq.
*The greatest trick religion ever pulled was convincing the world - He did exist*
*2.Religion is arrogant*

For those of you who feel the word is a bit too strong might I
recommend "*Stubborn and Ignorant"*. Religion proclaims itself to
be "\_The Greatest Truth ever"  \_while I believe is impossible.
For example the "Holy Bible" states that the Earth was created a
mere 6000 years ago, I am not going into what Biology, Geology, or
Chemistry says, but for the Hindus, the Earth is millions of years
old. Surely one of them has to be wrong, but yet, both of them, at
the same time are never ready to change, for what has been said
till now is "*The words of God"*and how dare we 'mere' humans
contradict them.

The fact remains that all *"The words of God" * are nothing but our
own, raised to a point that they are equated to being the words of
God, and we humans can make mistakes. In some sense religions fear
making mistakes, and moreover admitting making mistakes. Religion
right now looks like a high school bully, who has at some point
realised he is 99% wrong yet is holding on to the last straw of
hope, in order to be not made a fool of.

This is where religion could learn from science, for science is
never ashamed to correct itself, if anyone has any doubt the recent
"CERN Neutrino Speed Test" should serve as an example , where the
complete scientific world is

*3. Religion is at the very base political but denies that*

I do not have a problem with something being political, in fact
politics is something that is there in almost any activity of the
human society, but the reason I have listed it as a problem is that
"Religion denies this vehemently", I am not talking about the Vote-
Bank politics of India based on Religion, but about the fact that
the greatest (mis)use of religion has been to set up countries, for
conquests, for wars. The rise of Christianity under Constantinople
should give a rough idea about the same. Infact I sincerely believe
all religious figures were political figures of their times.

Religion has always been used as a primary tool in the rule of a
vast majority by a select minority, in a undemocratic set up.

*4. Religion undermines miracles*

This is a small point but something I have always had a problem
with, in religion a miracle goes like this
"*X touched the eyes of the blind girl, and at that instant she was restored with sight" .*
What is my problem with this, I have no problem with this but for
the fact that they associate this "miracle" to God, but yet are
silent about a even larger miracle, the fact that each and every
one of us can see , is much, much more of a miracle.

Moreover as explained in a previous post religion uses miracles to
fills gaps in understanding, anything unexplainable is immediately
accredited to "God", so that the "mere" humans will not ask doubts,
remember the point about religion being arrogant, miracles are the
cover for it.

*5. Religion is a business*

Well this might be influenced by recent times, but the end result
of every religion is
"*To make people realise the true truth, and to join their religion" .*
I recently had a few people of a certain religious sect visit us at
home, and they claimed of something truly unique and the reason why
they were doing that, and the statement (paraphrased) turned out to
be \*\*"\_ A time will come when all the evil in the world, will be
destroyed, it will be the time when the good shall be rewarded " 
\_even though I never pointed out to them (I never feed trolls),
the truth is it is the same message, in "\_Asathoma Sathgamaya" 
\_and even you do not need to go till religion it is the message
every Indian carries - "*Sathyameva Jayathe". *

What I saw there was not the true will to help mankind, but to
"market" their beliefs, and to get more people to it, by
highlighting its USP. There is nothing wrong with that, but what
invariably happens is that you claim this is the ONLY way, without
realizing that religion in itself is a point of view.

*6. God and Devil is the creation of religion and not the other way round, as they claim.*

As I said, God, and by negation(or by absence) Devil is created by
religion\*\*, for the simple reason, that they are the perfect
vehicles for belief propagation.The simple rule of Idol worship
applies to this, to propogate something a belief, you first create
a image (not visual, but meta) as the owner /creator of this and
then use this as a vehicle to propogate religion.  Because without
God, there is no easy manner to convince the people of the
beliefs.

Finally why agnostic [as seen on Internet]
"*Because honesty is kinda cool"*

I have a lot more to go on about religion but I will stop since I
have put up my major points across. To me all that religions need
to do is write the following words, and imbibe them in people bq.
*Be good, Do good.* Of course the problem comes on what is
*good *but that is for another post. Looking at this you don't need
God for that just a strong set of morals, for which you don't
necessarily need to believe in God.

So now why do I call myself a "Hindu", the following is an attempt
at that.

What I say is that if you take out the binding of religion with
God, in fact each and every religion is a rich set of culture, the
poetry, the life style, on how to live, how to carry on self, food,
and everything, and this is the beauty of the religion .

If you look at it the literature offered by each religion is truly
wonderful, and is something you can always appreciate, even if you
don't believe in it. Cultures can be appreciated without taking it
in,culture can even be opposed and appreciated at the SAME time.
Cultures can change, and they can mix, and they have no problem
changing according to the global conscience. The true reason that
"inter-religious" marriages in India are frowned upon was that
there was a distinct difference in the way of life of both the
religions,this was what caused the opposition, and we can see that
as these cultures mix, we get what we need, a heterogeneous,
tolerant society. Infact I can tell that you will find a "Malayali
Christian to be more alike to a Malayali Hindu/Muslim" rather than
a "Roman Christian".

This is why I call myself a Hindu(mostly) because most of my
upbringing has been in that form, from the stories I heard as a
boy, to even the food that is normally cooked at home. A well the
(mostly) part stands for me doing the different things, eating Beef
(Yes, I do, live with it) for one.

 

[Image Credit: Public domain]

 

 



