  -------------------------------------------------
  layout: post
  title: ! 'Movie Review : The Dark Knight Rises'
  permalink: http://blog.manyu.in/?p=342
  ...
  post\_id: 342
  categories: ---
  - Batman
  - Bruce Wayne
  - Catwoman
  - Chirstopher Nolan
  - Christopher
  - Dark
  - Dark Knight
  - Dark Knight Rises
  - Knight
  - My Views
  - Nolan
  - Review
  - Rises
  -------------------------------------------------

Rating  : 7.5/10 (Good)

Before I even start let me say this, "The Dark Knight rises is a
very good movie, it is a classic good vs evil struggle". While I
agree that comparison with "The Dark Knight" is not really good for
the purpose of the review it will happen, but even more will be
comparison with what we have come to expect of Nolan.

Hollywood is blessed with a few directors, who take years to shoot
a single movie, and makes it a classic, Nolan is definitely one of
them, and hence over the years with even very few movies , people
have come to expect something from Nolan, a depth, the movie always
keeps you thinking, keeps you thinking even after it ends.This
movie entirely fails on that count.

On a positive side, the movie concludes in a way I liked, just like
how when you take account of the damages, after a war, you are sad
but few new hopes will always rise, and you are always happy that
you are finally done with it.  (Saying anything more would be a
spoiler).

Sadly the villain and his team disappoints, you could have picked
this villain set from any of the good superhero movies you have
seen till now, but the actual Bane was something more, Bane was the
character that took Batman, crumpled him up totally . There were
reports that this whole series was part of the the 3 emotions
Gotham experienced (Fear, Chaos, and Pain) but sadly it was not
either pronounced in the movie,nor expressed in a subtly brilliant
manner.There wasn't a second layer in the character. The Joker
(Chaos) and even Scarecrow(Fear) were pretty much a single
dimensional emotions, which are good, but in this case the emotion
was just what you would get out of any villain. This may well have
been due to the fact that it was laying ground for the twist
towards the end of the movie, but then again, with very few minutes
left there wasn't an emotion there other than "Good vs Evil"

The movies I have always liked are the ones that keep you thinking,
about something constantly. You feel a weird kind of restlessness
when you watch the whole movie, you keep thinking about all the
things they did not show, subtle things that would wreak havoc.

Since I think I have been speaking about entirely about the bad
things, let me get to the things I have liked, for one the
beginning of the movie was  "Legen-FUCKING-dery" the foundation was
set well, the foundation was set solidly. The foundation was set
for a skyscraper. The ending too had it's fair share of twists and
turns, and few of them which you wouldn't see coming.

The middle was where the problem lay, while the importance shifted
from Batman entirely to Batman and the city, and which could have
been taken to better levels, but just became a bit ordinary. Once
again , it was no where near bad, but it was not great, but just
sat at good.

Even Batman's personal struggles did not excite you or make you
think they way it should have, for most it was the normal struggle
any superhero faces in the middle of any movie.

For most ,it is the people of Gotham that disappointed me, I missed
a scene like The Boat Scene in Dark Knight or the whole part where
they rose against Batman, Gotham city here did not play much of a
part as a whole. I seriously felt that it could have since the
groundwork was once again set, but somehow feel it was not used,
the city somehow melted  into the background, while few people came
up.

The two characters that I think need special mention here is
Kyle(Catwoman), and Blake (The police officer), both of whom I have
found to be really strong characters, while Kyle was your normal
bad girl you love kind of character but done in a way I really
enjoyed,  but Blake was one of the persons whose character I really
loved,  Blake was the one character that bought a lot of the true
emotional level to the movie, that was lacking in others, and for a
good reason.

And there is something I am leaving out of this, which is the
ending of the movie, for I sadly am in a state where I can't
describe much without being the guy who spoils the movie, the
ending but as I said has its twists and also a few legendary
things. It does have an amazing climax, with lots of hope
remaining.

I also has missed something that thanks to Shashank is being
updated. The entire movie is brilliantly taken, the shots are just
too good, each and everything looks just too good, the effects
perfectly blend into the scene, and the whole movie, the chases,
the fights, the explosions, were bloody brilliant. Not a single
scene seemed over the top but just perfect. The football stadium
song shot and the destruction that follows, was again something
epic.

Finally as I said, the movie is not something you should give a
miss, it is a must watch, it is a good superhero movie, but what is
lacking is the depth, and multiple layers Nolan is famous for
giving.

Image Credit: Warner Bros Official Download site



